What is Enum?
Enum is a special type in java that is used to define collection of constants.
Enum of colors::

enum Color{
  Red,Green,Blue,White,Blue;
}
By using enum, we create our own datatype.Datatype of Red is 'Color'

Where can we declare enum type?
Can be declatred outside the class and inside the class.
But we can not declare inside method.

How to access enum constants?
Every enum constant is static, so we can access it using static.

How to get all constants of enum?
For that we have values() method, that can be invoked with enum name or enum instance.

Color[] colors=Color.values();
for(Color c:colors)
{
  s.o.p(c);
}

Enum provides values implicitly. It is not present in the Enum class or object.

What is the difference between enum, Enum and Enumeration?
1. enum:: It is a keyword to declare group of constants.
2.Enum::It is base class for all enums.
Every enum is direct child of Enum class.
3.Enumeration::It is interface present in java.util package.
It has cursor which is used to get access element one by one.

Can enum be declared as final?
No, enum is implicitly final.

Can enum extend any class.
No,as enum extends Enum.Java does not support multiple inheritance.

Can enum have implementation classes?
No, becuase enum is final class.

Can enum implement interfaces?
Yes, because enum is like class and interface.

Can we have constructor in enum?
Yes we can have variables, methods and constructor.

enum Week{
 SUN,MON,TUES,WED;
int a;
Week(){
}
public void m1(){
}
}

How constructors are invoked in enum?
Everytime we load the enum, constructor is invoked.
Every enum constant is considered as enum object.


Can we create enum object explicitly?
No, we can not create enum with new keyword.
It is created implicitly.

Can we create parameterised constructor in enum?If yes then how to pass value to constructor?
yes, we can create enum constructor parameterised
Sun("Holiday")

Can Enum have abstract methods?
No, becuase Enum are final.

Can we override toString() method for enum?
Yes, But there is no need to override it because enum class has already overidden the toString() method for
every enum.

Can we create enum constant outside on enum?
No

Can constructors be public in enum?
No, constructor can not be public or protected either.

What does ordinal() method do?
It returns the order of 'enum' constants.

Can we use enum with TreeSet or TreeMap?
yes, becuase enum implements Comparable interface.

Can we use Enum in switch case in Java?
yes, becuase enum instances are constants, so we can use them in switch case.

Is Enum serializable in java?
yes, because Enum implements Serializable interface.

How to convert String to enum in java?
enum provides valueOf method which takes String as argument.

What are benefits of enum in java?
enum are typesafe, we can not assign anything other than those predefined constants.
enum can be used in switch









































