
1)What are classes and objects?
-->Classes are user-defined blue print from which objects are created, which has methods and attributes.

2)Types of modifiers present in Java?
-->Two types of modifiers:: Access modifier. --Keywords which set accessibility of any method or member or class.
                            Non-Access modifier.

3)How many types of access-modofiers present?
public:: Can be accessed anywhere, in any package, in any class.
private::Can be accessed only in class where they are defined.
protected::Can be accessed within same package and its subclass.
default:: When there is no modifier used, then its default.The defualt class and its members can be accessed only in their package.

4)What is package?
Mechanism to keep all the classes, interfaces and sub-packages with same functionality at one place.It creates proper folder structure to keep them
and helps in easy searching.

Can top level class be private? No, only public or default.

Which access modifier is least restrictive and which is most restrictive?
Least restrictive:: public
Most restrictive::private

What are non-access modifier in java?
a)static:: Used to define whether a member is class memeber.

b)final:: Used to restrict further modification on any class, method and variable.
If any primitive is defined as final, then its value can not be throughout in the program.

c)abstract ::Used to mark any class or method as incomplete and it needs to be implemented.

d)synchronized::Used to ensure thread safety in multithreaded environment when multiple threads execute same task simultaneopusly.

Can a class be defined abstract and final at the same time?
No becuase final restrict further modification.
abstract marks method/class to be implemented.

What is abstract method?
method with no definition and it is defined in abstract class.

Can we define abstract class in non-abstract class?
No

Can we mark abstract class as private?
No, becuase it need to be accessed in other classes, so it must be public, default or protected

Can we instantiate abstract classes?
No, becuase abstarrct classes are not fully implemented.

Can we define top class as static?
No, static is only for class members.

What is a variable and what are the types of variables in Java?
Variable is a container whioch stores data value. It is a name which is given to a memory shell.Variable can store primitive or objects.
Class can have below variables::

instance variable::Defined inside class, outside any method.
local variable::Defined inside method.
static variable::Defined inside any class, outside method and with static keyword.

When are static variables loaded in memory?
Static variables are loaded in memory at time of class loading, when we load the class, static varibles are first to get loaded.

Are there any global variables in java?
No, encapsulation does not allow class to have global variables.

Can we declare final variables without initialization?
Yes, we call it blank final variables.We have to initialize blank final variables before any usage.

static blank final variable can be initialized in static blocks.

Can we make local variable final?
Yes, it is the only variable acceptable to local variable.


What is constructor?
Special kind of method used to initialize objects.

Various types of constructors::
a)default constructor:: If we dont define any constructor.
b)Non parametrized constructor:: Constructor with no argument.
c)Parameterized constructor:: Constructor with arguments.

Can a constructor be final or abstract or static?

No, class can not be final becuase constructor itself can not be modified or overwritten by any other class, so no need of final.

abstract have only declaration, so constrtuctor can not be abstract.

static dont below to objects.

Can we have return type or return method with constructor?
The answer is No .

What is the use of private constructor in java?
private constructor can only be instantiated inside the class where it is defined. No other class can create objects of this class.

Can a constructor return any value?
There is no return type specified, but it returns objects implicitly.

Can an abstract class have constructor?
Yes, 

How we define method in java?
Method is a block of code which can be invoked by its name.

What is method signature?
method name and the data type of parameters it has.

Does return type of method is part of method signature?
No

What are static methods?
static methods are used to access static variables.

Can we access instance variables inside static method?
No

What are method declaration?
When we dont define method body and end it with semicolon.Its used in interfaces and abstract class.

What is interfaces?
It has abstract and public method with declaration.It specifies what a class must do.

What is native method?
method written in any other language.

Can we create objects of final class?
Yes, eg String.























